>> Jason: And
again with the OpenType features,
wanting to make sure
that we make use of this.
Again, we'll take a look at some of
the CSS to play with the kerning and
the ligatures.
There's even more that you can
do with OpenType features.
We'll take a look at what
some of those look like.
But if you look at this chunk over here
on the right, you've got a nice italic,
and then it's this recipe where you've
got some fractional amounts down there.
And that's what we've typically
had to do on the web is 1/2, 1/3.
It's a little coarse,
it doesn't really look quite as refined.
Well, as it happens, in CSS if you
have that series of characters and
you have the OpenType feature enabled,
it can look like that.
And that's a tremendous difference.
That looks so much nicer where you see
the true fractions that are in there.
We didn't have to add any classes,
just if the typeface finds a 1/2 and
that feature is enabled, it just
replaces it with the proper fraction.
So it's really kind of amazing
that this stuff is all here.
It's been here,
in CSS in the specification for years,
and there just aren't that many
typefaces that support it,
and people don't even
know that it is there.
Axis-Praxis, or another one from my
friend, Roel Nieskens, Wakamai Fondue?
That's another kind of funny one
that I'll pull up in a little bit.
That will sort of open the world to you
for all the available features in a given
type face, and a lot of these things
are set to just work with drag and drop.
So you go there in the browser, you take
your font file, drag it on to the page,
and it will do all the analysis and
then just spit out a page for
you that tells you everything that's
there that you can play with.
So better blockquotes,
multi column layouts, initial caps.
All of these things fall back
gracefully when they're not supported.
All of these things just kind
of work when you can turn them
on in an automated fashion.
Widowtamer is another thing that we
we'll look at for fixing that last line.
All of these things are what
add up to a great experience.
No one thing is all a sudden going
to make the typography great.
It's all of these little details together,
and
this is the true value with a design
system or a starting point.
So how many of you tend to work
in more of an agency setting or
freelance where you're working on
different projects one after another?
Okay, so we have a few people here.
Are you starting from scratch every time?
I mean, some people have,
a lot of Drupal shops will have
a particular starting theme.
Lots of people start with Bootstrap or
Foundation, other people
will start with Pattern Lab.
There are lots of different
options out there.
What I recommend is, create your
own typography starting kit, so
that way you can bring all of this
stuff in and it's just all there.
You just bring it into your project and
then you start customizing
some of those values.
And that way, you can fine tune for
the specifics of the typeface
that you're using, but
it also means that you get a jump start
on working on all of these details.
So you're much more likely to have time to
go back and tune up fallback fonts if you
don't have to write this stuff
from scratch every time.